<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
    <meta name="author" content="Marc Hoyois"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Stop/Reload toolbar button"/>
    <title>Universal Safari Extension</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles.css"/>
</head>
<body>
<header id="top">
<h1>Universal Safari Extension</h1>
<p class="author">by Marc Hoyois</p>
</header>

<nav>
<a href="../">My Safari extensions</a> &gt; Universal Extension
</nav>

<div id="download">
<p><a href="http://github.com/downloads/hoyois/safariextensions/UniversalExtension-1.0.safariextz">Download Universal Extension</a></p>
</div>

<div id="contents">
<b>Jump to</b>
<ul>
    <li><a href="#examples">Examples</a></li>
</ul>
</div>

<div id="intro">
<p>Like a universal Turing machine, a universal extension is an extension that can reproduce the behavior of an arbitrary extension. A universal extension does not actually exist because extension bars and toolbar items cannot be created dynamically. These are however the only restrictions, and this extension is a universal extension without bars or toolbar items.</p>

<p>This extension has a single setting which must be a URL to a Javascript file. This file is included as a script in the extension’s global page.</p>
</div>

<h3 id="notes">Notes</h3>

<ul>
    <li>The <code>file://</code> protocol cannot be used in an extension’s global page. To load local files, use <code>http://localhost/</code> instead.</li>
    <li>To reload the global script after it’s been modified, simply disable and enable the extension.</li>
    <li>The <code>safari.application</code>, <code>safari.extension</code>, and <code>safari.self</code> objects can be used in the global script.</li>
    <li>Content scripts and style sheets can be added with the methods <code>addContentScript</code> and <code>addContentStyleSheet</code> of the <code>safari.extension</code> object.</li>
    <li>The <code>addContentScriptFromURL</code> and <code>addContentStyleSheetsFromURL</code> methods throw an error if the URL is external to the extension. See the <a href="#script_loader">example</a> below for a workaround.</li>
</ul>

<h3 id="source">Source</h3>

This is the extension’s global page:

<p class="code">&lt;!DOCTYPE html&gt;
&lt;html&gt;
    &lt;head&gt;
        &lt;script type="text/javascript"&gt;
            if(safari.extension.settings.script) {
                var scriptElement = document.createElement("script");
                scriptElement.type = "text/javascript";
                scriptElement.src = safari.extension.settings.script;
                document.head.appendChild(scriptElement);
            }
        &lt;/script&gt;
    &lt;/head&gt;
    &lt;body&gt;&lt;/body&gt;
&lt;/html&gt;</p>

<h2 id="examples" class="init_list">Examples</h2>

<h3 id="multiple_scripts" class="list_item">Loading multiple global scripts</h3>

<p>The universal extension only loads one global script, so a first step to make it more useful is to have that script load any number of other scripts.</p>

<p class="code">var base = "http://localhost/~joeshmoe/scripts/";

function loadScripts() {
    for(var i = 0; i &lt; arguments.length; i++) {
        var scriptElement = document.createElement("script");
        scriptElement.type = "text/javascript";
        scriptElement.src = base + arguments[i];
        document.head.appendChild(scriptElement);
    }
}

loadScripts("globalScript1.js", "globalScript2.js", "globalScript3.js");</p>

<h3 id="script_loader" class="list_item">Loading external scripts and style sheets</h3>

<p>This global script can be used to load content scripts and style sheets from arbitrary URLs with a variety of parameters.</p>

<p class="code">function addContentScripts(scripts, whitelist, blacklist, runAtEnd, defer, async) {
    if(scripts.length === 0) return;
    var script = "function loadScripts(){for(var i=0;i&lt;arguments.length;i++){var s=document.createElement('script');" + (async ? "s.async=true;" : "") + (defer ? "s.defer=true;" : "") + "s.type='text/javascript';s.src=arguments[i];document.documentElement.appendChild(s);}}loadScripts('" + scripts.join("','") + "');";
    return safari.extension.addContentScript(script, whitelist, blacklist, runAtEnd);
}
function addContentStyleSheets(stylesheets, whitelist, blacklist) {
    if(stylesheets.length === 0) return;
    var script = "function loadStyleSheets(){for(var i=0;i&lt;arguments.length;i++){var s=document.createElement('link');s.rel='stylesheet';s.type='text/css';s.href=arguments[i];document.documentElement.appendChild(s);}}loadStyleSheets('" + stylesheets.join("','") + "');";
    return safari.extension.addContentStyleSheet(script, whitelist, blacklist);
}

// The script runBeforeScript.js will run on every page before the page’s own scripts
addContentScripts(["http://localhost/~joeshmoe/runBeforeScript.js"], [], [], false, false, false);

// The scripts local.js and remote.js will run on all nonsecure pages, in this order and without delaying page loading
addContentScripts(["http://localhost/~joeshmoe/local.js", "http://example.com/remote.js"], [], ["https://*/*"], false, true, false);

// The style sheet pretty.css will be applied to all pages on the domain someuglysite.com
addContentStyleSheets(["http://localhost/~joeshmoe/pretty.css"], ["http://someuglysite.com/*"], []);</p>

<h3 id="html5_blocker" class="list_item">Blocking HTML5 media</h3>

<p>The days of HTML5 advertising are still far away, but when they come it will be a simple matter to control it. This global script prevents HTML5 media elements from preloading until the “Play” button is clicked.</p>

<p class="code">var whitelist = ["trustedsource.com", "anothertrustedsource.com"];

function canLoad(url) {
    for(var i = 0; i &lt; whitelist.length; i++) {
        if(url.indexOf(whitelist[i]) !== -1) return true;
    }
    return false;
}

function respondToMessage(event) {
    if(event.name === "canLoad") event.message = canLoad(event.message);
}

var script = "document.addEventListener('beforeload',handleBeforeLoadEvent,true);function handleBeforeLoadEvent(event){if(!(event.target instanceof HTMLMediaElement)||safari.self.tab.canLoad(event,event.url))return;event.target.autoplay=false;event.target.setAttribute('preload','none');}";

safari.extension.addContentScript(script, [], [], false);
safari.application.addEventListener("message", respondToMessage, false);</p>

<footer>
<p id="footer_left">Updated on August 8, 2011</p>
<p id="footer_right"><a href="#top">To the top</a></p>
<p id="footer_middle"><a href="http://validator.w3.org/check?uri=http%3A%2F%2Fhoyois.github.com%2Fsafariextensions%2Funiversalextension%2F;verbose=1">XHTML5</a> • <a href="http://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/validator?uri=http%3A%2F%2Fhoyois.github.com%2Fsafariextensions%2Funiversalextension%2F&amp;profile=css3&amp;usermedium=all&amp;warning=1">CSS3</a></p>
</footer>

</body>
</html>
